docs(api): liquid presence verification (#15695)
OpenTrons/opentrons-api: api/docs/v2/basic_commands/liquids.rst

.. versionadded:: 2.0

.. _detect-liquid-presence:

Detect Liquids
==============

> The :py:meth:`.InstrumentContext.detect_liquid_presence` method tells a Flex pipette to check for the presence of a liquid in a wellplate or reservoir. This method returns ``True`` if the pressure sensors in a pipette detect a liquid and ``False`` if liquid if the sensors do not. Detection takes place during aspiration. As the Flex pipette detects a liquid, it stops, raises itself above the liquid's surface, and then resumes aspiration. This method will not raise an error or stop your protocol if the Flex pipette does not detect a liquid. You can write your own code to respond to the output of this method. See also :ref:`lpd`.

Reviewer: _"Detection takes place during aspiration. As the Flex pipette detects a liquid, it stops, raises itself above the liquid's surface, and then resumes aspiration."_

Detections do take place during an aspiration, but the function that does the automatic detection during an aspiration is `require_liquid_presence`, not `detect_liquid_presence`. 

Also, both require/detect can be called entirely separately from aspirations. You can call `detect_liquid_presence` on 100 wells without ever doing an aspiration. Because of this, it might be a good idea to keep explanations of automatic detection during aspirations separate from explanations of these two functions.(I'm not aware of how docs are typically written though so I could be very off here)

Author: @aaron-kulkarni Thanks for the clarifications. These are some important distinctions.

- `detect_liquid_presence` and `require_liquid_presence` can be called separately from aspiration.
- function that does the automatic detection during an aspiration is `require_liquid_presence`, not `detect_liquid_presence`.

.. versionadded:: 2.0

.. _detect-liquid-presence:

Detect Liquids
==============

> The :py:meth:`.InstrumentContext.detect_liquid_presence` method tells a Flex pipette to check for the presence of a liquid in a wellplate or reservoir. This method returns ``True`` if the pressure sensors in a pipette detect a liquid and ``False`` if the sensors do not. It will not raise an error or stop your protocol when the robot detects and empty well. Detection takes place during aspiration, but you don't need to aspirate to use ``detect_liquid_presence``. It's a standalone method that can be called when you just want to detect liquids only. See also :ref:`lpd`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The :py:meth:`.InstrumentContext.detect_liquid_presence` method tells a Flex pipette to check for the presence of a liquid in a well plate or reservoir. This method returns ``True`` if the pressure sensors in the pipette detect a liquid and ``False`` if the sensors do not. It will not raise an error or stop your protocol when the robot detects an empty well. 

You should generally detect liquid immediately after picking up a tip and before aspirating, but you don't need to aspirate to use ``detect_liquid_presence()``. It's a standalone method that can be called when you only want to detect liquid. 

.. note::
    Accurate liquid detection requires fresh, dry pipette tips.

```

Couple typos and more specific guidance on when is ok/good to use this method.

.. code-block:: python

>     pipette.detect_liquid_presence()

Reviewer 2: Needs a well argument.

In cases where you need records that are more informative than ``true`` or ``false``, you can write your own code to handle the output of this method. For example, by adding some indexing along with ``for`` and ``while`` loops, your protocol could count how many aspirations a robot performed before a source well ran out of liquid. Here's one way to do this in the ``run():`` function of our Flex :ref:`protocol template <protocol-template>`:

> .. code-block:: python

Reviewer 2: This code block needs an overhaul. From most to least important:

- The `for` loop is broken because labware don't have an iterable `items()` method, much less one that has names and wells. 
  - It needs to be `for well in reservoir.wells()` or this will not analyze.
  - The reference to `name` in the comment should be `well.name`.
- Variable case and names don't match, which will lead to Python syntax errors. Variable names should be snake_case when assigned and referenced.
- The tip index is superfluous because it's never referenced in the messages at the end and you could use automatic tip tracking instead.
- General `black`ening
  - Two spaces before comment delimiters
  - `+=` is an assignment operator and should have spaces on either side

Author: We're often not following our own rules re: [comments](https://peps.python.org/pep-0008/#comments).

> Comments should be complete sentences. The first word should be capitalized, unless it is an identifier that begins with a lower case letter (never alter the case of identifiers!).

            tip_index+=1

            cur_index+=1

        # Add a helpful record to the run log when a well runs dry or is empty.
        protocol.comment(
            f"Found liquid and aspirated from well {name} {curIndex} times. Well is now empty."
        )

    # Add a helpful record to the run log when all source wells are empty.
    protocol.comment("Exhausted all wells in reservoir.") 

Now the Flex records an entry in the run log that includes the well's name (e.g. ``A1``, ``A2``, ``B1`` etc.) and how many times the pipette aspirated from that well before it ran dry. If a protocol uses all the liquid in its source wells, the robot records that too.

.. versionadded:: 2.20

.. _require-liquid-presence:

Require Liquids
===============

The :py:meth:`.InstrumentContext.require_liquid_presence` method tells a Flex pipette to check for and require a liquid in a well or reservoir. This method returns ``True`` if the pressure sensors in a pipette detect a liquid and ``False`` if liquid if the sensors do not. When the robot does not detect liquid, it raises an error, stops the protocol to let you resolve the problem, and writes a warning to the run log.

> Detection takes place during aspiration, but you don't need to aspirate to use ``require_liquid_presence``. It's a standalone method that can be called when you want to detect liquids only. See also :ref:`lpd`.

Reviewer 2: As above, you should call this with a fresh tip and before aspiration.

And the cross-reference can be strengthened to indicate that it links to instructions on how to perform this automatically for all aspirations on a given pipette.

.. code-block:: python

>     pipette.require_liquid_presence()

Reviewer 2: Needs a well argument.
